README.md, before:

# Python Source Server Query Library
A Python package for communicating with a Source Engine Server over UDP  
This is currently a work in progess, but performs all 3 non depreciated queries on standard source servers.  

I push changes to the master branch whenever I finish a session of working on this. If you want the absolute latest version, download the code and use it manually, otherwise install through pip for the latest version I class as stable enough to use.
### Known problems/limitations I'm working on
* Goldensource servers will cause unknown (possibly uncaught) errors

### New features I'm working on
* Server retry method, which will try to re-establish a connection to the server it represents if closed

### Untested
* Split package payload decompression
* Split package size attribute detection
* CS:GO servers with `host_players_show` set to 1 as I'm currently unable to find a server that uses this
* Getting the players on a server running The Ship when someone is in the process of joining, as it relies on the count returned with the response packet, which may or may not differ from the actual number of players when someone is joining. (This descrepancy has not yet been observed on other servers despite the Valve dev wiki stating otherwise)

## Installation
`pip install sourceserver`

## Usage
A `SourceServer` object acts as a connection to a Source engine server, with its own socket.  
To instantiate a new `SourceServer` object, simply pass it a connection string in the form `ipv4:port`, the object will attempt to get the server's info, and if the connection fails after max retries, raises a `SourceError`.  
Note, all errors that are expected are raised as `SourceError`, which closes the server object's socket when raised.

The information regarding a server is retrieved each time you access the `.info` property, and is a dictionary in the form `"info_type": "value"`.  
Any attempts to set the `.info` property will result in an `AttributeError`.

### Methods Overview:
| Method | Use |
|--------|-------------|
| `SourceServer.getPlayers()` | Returns a tuple containing each player on the server, and the count<br>(see below) |
| `SourceServer.getRules()` | Returns the server rules as a dictionary of `name: value` pairs<br>Note, if the server is running CS:GO, this will time out |
| `SourceServer.close()` | Closes the server connection and prevents further requests from being made.<br>While it is possible to reuse a `SourceServer` object by manually setting its properties, it's meant to represent a singular instance of a server

The `.getPlayers()` method returns (count, players), where count is the count specified in the response packet (can be different from actual number of players returned, see note at https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/Server_queries#Response_Format_2), and players is a tuple of tuples, where each tuple represents a player and is in the format `(index: int, name: str, score: int, duration: float)`, unless the server is running The Ship, in which case they're in the format `(index: int, name: str, score: int, duration: float, deaths: int, money: int)`

Also, it appears that if a player is in the process of joining, they will still be in the players tuple with valid information, but their name will be blank. This may mean that the note on the valve dev website is incorrect, as the player is counted as joined still.

## Example
```python
>>> from sourceserver.sourceserver import SourceServer
>>> srv = SourceServer("89.35.29.5:27085")
>>> print(srv.info["game"]) 
Trouble in Terrorist Town
>>> count, players = srv.getPlayers()
>>> print(count) 
28
>>> print(players[0]) 
(0, 'lakerprime', 0, 6148.7333984375)
```

## License
GNU General Public License v3.0

Commit message:

Add retry method to SourceServer object and rework SourceError so it no longer closes the server

README.md, after:

# Python Source Server Query Library
A Python package for communicating with a Source Engine Server over UDP  
This is currently a work in progess, but performs all 3 non depreciated queries on standard source servers.  

I push changes to the master branch whenever I finish a session of working on this. If you want the absolute latest version, download the code and use it manually, otherwise install through pip for the latest version I class as stable enough to use.
### Known problems/limitations I'm working on
* Goldensource servers will cause unknown (possibly uncaught) errors

### New features I'm working on
* Get the ping to the server, either as a seperate function or as part of the info param. If I do make it a function it'll still be using the info param, but will just return the value of the ping element

### Untested
* Split package payload decompression
* Split package size attribute detection
* CS:GO servers with `host_players_show` set to 1 as I'm currently unable to find a server that uses this
* Getting the players on a server running The Ship when someone is in the process of joining, as it relies on the count returned with the response packet, which may or may not differ from the actual number of players when someone is joining. (This descrepancy has not yet been observed on other servers despite the Valve dev wiki stating otherwise)

## Installation
`pip install sourceserver`

## Usage
A `SourceServer` object acts as a connection to a Source engine server, with its own socket.  
To instantiate a new `SourceServer` object, simply pass it a connection string in the form `ipv4:port`, the object will attempt to get the server's info, and if the connection fails after max retries, raises a `SourceError`.  
Note, all errors that are expected are raised as `SourceError`, which marks the server as closed, but does not actually close the socket so the connection can be re-established.

The information regarding a server is retrieved each time you access the `.info` property, and is a dictionary in the form `"info_type": "value"`.  
Any attempts to set the `.info` property will result in an `AttributeError`.

### Methods Overview:
| Method | Use |
|--------|-------------|
| `SourceServer.getPlayers()` | Returns a tuple containing each player on the server, and the count<br>(see below) |
| `SourceServer.getRules()` | Returns the server rules as a dictionary of `name: value` pairs<br>Note, if the server is running CS:GO, this will time out |
| `SourceServer.close()` | Closes the server connection and prevents further requests from being made.<br>While it is possible to reuse a `SourceServer` object by manually setting its properties, it's meant to represent a singular instance of a server |
|`SourceServer.retry()` | Attempts to re-establish a connection to the server

The `.getPlayers()` method returns (count, players), where count is the count specified in the response packet (can be different from actual number of players returned, see note at https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/Server_queries#Response_Format_2), and players is a tuple of tuples, where each tuple represents a player and is in the format `(index: int, name: str, score: int, duration: float)`, unless the server is running The Ship, in which case they're in the format `(index: int, name: str, score: int, duration: float, deaths: int, money: int)`

Also, it appears that if a player is in the process of joining, they will still be in the players tuple with valid information, but their name will be blank. This may mean that the note on the valve dev website is incorrect, as the player is counted as joined still.

## Example
```python
>>> from sourceserver.sourceserver import SourceServer
>>> srv = SourceServer("89.35.29.5:27085")
>>> print(srv.info["game"]) 
Trouble in Terrorist Town
>>> count, players = srv.getPlayers()
>>> print(count) 
28
>>> print(players[0]) 
(0, 'lakerprime', 0, 6148.7333984375)
```

## License
GNU General Public License v3.0
